# v0.3 of components compared to v0.2

## state
- state is no longer something that the component needs to manage separately. Instead, the core preserves the state of a component by taking a snapshot of the entire component and all of its properties at the end of an operation. It then reloads the entire snapshot on the next operation (deployment, removal or info)
- If a component wants to preserve a value in state, it simply needs to set any property and that value will be saved at the end of the operation.

**Example**
```js
async deploy() {
  // do some deploy logic here
  const result = await deploySomething()

  // this.someValue will be saved in the instances snapshot just by setting the property
  this.someValue = result.someValue
}
```
- Complex types that are not defined using the type system will not be saved since we cannot be properly rebuild those types. We only serialize and save generic JS data types (object, array, string, boolean, etc) and types defined with the type system (Component, Object, AwsS3Bucket, etc)

**Example**
```js
import AWS from 'aws-sdk'

async deploy() {
  // Setting this property will not cause it to be saved to state because the value is not a serializable value
  this.s3 = new AWS.S3()
}
```


## inputs
- inputs are no longer provided to the `deploy` or `remove` method. Instead they are only given to the new `construct` method and are set on a property called `inputs` by default.

```js
construct(inputs) {
  // 'inputs' is equal to what is defined in serverless.yml
}
```

```js
async deploy() {
  this.inputs // the same as what was defined in serverless.yml
}
```

## deploy
- variables are still resolved by the core before a component's `deploy` method is called
- Since the component no longer concerns itself with state, it is instead given a reference to the previous instance on the `deploy` operation. This can be used to compare the current instances properties against the previous instance to determine what to do in the deploy.
```js
async deploy(prevInstance, context) {
  // prevInstance is what the instance was at the end of the previous operation
  if (this.)

}
```

## remove
- The `remove` method is called against the saved snapshot of the component from a previous deployment. This means that the component will have all the the property values set


## construct


```js
construct(inputs, context) {
  // if you define this method, you must call the super.construct method for the this.inputs property to be set. if you do not define your own construct method, the default construct method will be used which will set the inputs value for you
  super.construct(inputs, context)
}
```
